d\&r update
================

yall\! \!\!\!

this is a GitHub repository that will help us manage an update to the
[Data at Reed](data-at-reed) site. specifically, the information at
\[Analyzing & Visualizing Data \> R tutorials\]\!

ideally, we can point people who come into the mLab to that site to help
address common issues. unfortunately, Nothing Has Happened to those
pages for a good bit of time and, as a result, they don’t reflect the
kinds of issues we see most often now.

so uhhh they need updating\! sweet.

## what now?

Leila and I have added all of the previous files in the `old_docs`
folder, and an outline of what the new content could look like below.
Each header is a single document, and below it are some packages and
functionality that we’ll discuss what they do, maybe give an example,
link out to resources that are maintained by authors and collaborators
and *how* to do it, and probably not much more.

## a new outline

<center>

### R at Reed

The RStudio Server & `thesisdown`

### Getting Started

Installing R & RStudio, some terminology, and `palmerpenguins`

### Loading Data

`readr`, `readxl`, `googlesheets4`, `rvest`

### Data Wrangling

`tibble`, `tidyr`, `dplyr`

### Presentation & Visualization

`ggplot2`, `kable`, RMarkdown

### More Resources

Learning more & getting connected (links to the free online textbook,
our hours in the MLab?)

</center>

## keeping-in-mind-things

We’ll be using `palmerpenguins` to demonstrate important functions,
instead of `iris`\! Here’s some
[documentation](https://allisonhorst.github.io/palmerpenguins/articles/intro.html)
for `palmerpenguins`, and some info on [why we’re not using
iris](https://www.meganstodel.com/posts/no-to-iris/).

We want people to not only get the information they need, but also to
know where to look if our examples don’t completely answer their
questions (teach a man to fish?). So\! As much as possible, we’ll link
out to other resources (like the Happy Git with R resource Simon linked
to, or tidyverse cheatsheets) so that folks get used to using the
documentation that’s already out there\! Not trying to reinvent the
wheel\!
